# 4a.0.1.3 - v_establishment_price_ranges_localized

  https://gemini.google.com/u/1/app/21b8e85b3e611787 New View Spec: 
v_establishment_price_ranges_localized 1. View Name 
public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized 2. Purpose & Primary Use-Cases 
Purpose : To provide a consolidated and denormalized view of 
establishment_price_ranges_master records, including all their available 
translations for label and description fields in a structured JSONB format, 
alongside all other master table attributes. Primary Use-Cases : Simplify API 
development by providing a single source for an establishment price range and 
all its translations. Support API endpoints that list price ranges or display 
details for a specific price range where multilingual representation is 
required (e.g., for filtering food establishments). Facilitate easier data 
fetching for frontend components that need to display localized price range 
information. 3. View Schema (Columns) Column Data Type Description id integer 
Inherited from establishment_price_ranges_master . Unique identifier for the 
price range. code text Inherited from establishment_price_ranges_master . 
Short, stable, machine-readable code (e.g., 'budget_friendly'). label text 
Inherited from establishment_price_ranges_master . Primary reference language 
(English) label for the price range. description text Inherited from 
establishment_price_ranges_master . Optional primary reference language 
(English) description of the price range. symbol text Inherited from 
establishment_price_ranges_master . Visual symbol for the price range (e.g., 
"â‚¬", "â‚¬â‚¬"). sort_order integer Inherited from establishment_price_ranges_master 
. Determines display order in UI lists. is_active boolean Inherited from 
establishment_price_ranges_master . True if the price range is active and 
available for use. created_at timestamp with time zone Inherited from 
establishment_price_ranges_master . Timestamp of record creation. updated_at 
timestamp with time zone Inherited from establishment_price_ranges_master . 
Timestamp of last update. created_by_profile_id uuid Inherited from 
establishment_price_ranges_master . Profile ID of the user/admin who created 
this record. updated_by_profile_id uuid Inherited from 
establishment_price_ranges_master . Profile ID of the user/admin who last 
updated this record. all_translations jsonb A JSONB object containing all 
available translations for label and description , keyed by language code. 
Example: {"en": {"label": "...", "description": "..."}, "it": {"label": "...", 
"description": "..."}} . Includes primary English text if present in 
translations table. 4. Underlying SQL Definition SQL CREATE OR REPLACE VIEW 
public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized AS SELECT eprm.id, eprm.code, 
eprm.label, -- Primary English label eprm.description, -- Primary English 
description eprm.symbol, eprm.sort_order, eprm.is_active, eprm.created_at, 
eprm.updated_at, eprm.created_by_profile_id, eprm.updated_by_profile_id, ( 
SELECT jsonb_object_agg( tr.language_code, jsonb_build_object( 'label' , MAX ( 
CASE WHEN tr.column_identifier = 'label' THEN tr.translated_text ELSE NULL END 
), 'description' , MAX ( CASE WHEN tr.column_identifier = 'description' THEN 
tr.translated_text ELSE NULL END ) ) ) FROM public.translations tr WHERE 
tr.table_identifier = 'establishment_price_ranges_master' AND 
tr.row_foreign_key = eprm.id::TEXT GROUP BY tr.row_foreign_key ) AS 
all_translations FROM public.establishment_price_ranges_master eprm; COMMENT ON 
VIEW public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized IS 'Provides establishment 
price ranges with their base English fields and a JSONB column 
"all_translations" containing all available label and description translations 
keyed by language code. Version 1.0' ; COMMENT ON COLUMN 
public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized.label IS 'Primary reference 
language (English) label from establishment_price_ranges_master.' ; COMMENT ON 
COLUMN public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized.description IS 'Primary 
reference language (English) description from 
establishment_price_ranges_master.' ; COMMENT ON COLUMN 
public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized.all_translations IS 'JSONB object 
with all translations for label and description, keyed by language code. E.g., 
{"en": {"label": "...", "description": "..."}, "it": {"label": "...", 
"description": "..."}}. Base English text from master table should be merged by 
application/API layer if not also present in translations table with code 
''en''.' ; 5. Key Dependencies public.establishment_price_ranges_master 
(Version 1.3 or later, which includes is_active and audit columns) 
public.translations (Version 2.1 or later) 6. Performance Considerations The 
subquery using jsonb_object_agg can be resource-intensive without proper 
indexing on public.translations . Required Index on public.translations : A 
composite index on ( table_identifier , row_foreign_key , language_code , 
column_identifier ) is crucial. (Assumed to be 
idx_translations_lookup_multi_col ). Queries on this view filtering by 
is_active will benefit from the idx_eprm_is_active index on 
establishment_price_ranges_master . For very high-read scenarios, a 
materialized view could be a V2+ optimization. 7. RLS & Security Notes RLS 
policies from public.establishment_price_ranges_master (e.g., filtering by 
is_active = true ) will be inherited by this view. Access to 
public.translations is assumed if a user can see the master record. Define with 
SECURITY INVOKER (default for views). 8. API Endpoints Supported (Conceptual) 
GET /meta/price-ranges?lang=it : List all active establishment price ranges 
with translations. GET /meta/price-ranges/{code} : Get a specific price range 
with translations. Useful for UIs that allow filtering commercial waypoints 
(like food sources) by price. 9. Rationale for Creation Decouples API data 
retrieval from complex translation join/aggregation logic. Provides a 
consistent, denormalized structure for accessing localized price range content. 
Improves query readability and maintainability for developers. 10. Key 
Considerations & Definitions Primary Language Fallback : The API/application 
layer needs to handle fallback to primary English fields if a translation for a 
requested language is not available in all_translations . Data Freshness : As a 
standard view, it reflects the current state. 11. Scalability & Future-Proofing 
Performance depends on translations table indexing. Adding new translatable 
fields to establishment_price_ranges_master would require updating this view 
definition. 12. Next-Action Checklist ðŸ”´ Create View : Execute the DDL to 
create public.v_establishment_price_ranges_localized . ðŸ”´ Verify Index on 
translations : Ensure the recommended composite index on public.translations 
exists. ðŸŸ  API Layer Integration : Plan API consumption of this view. ðŸŸ¢ 
Testing : Test view performance. ðŸŸ¢ Documentation : Document this view. 
