# 1.0.3 - Security & Authentication Architecture Specification

  https://gemini.google.com/u/1/app/440838222ac514d7 Okay, I'm switching hats to 
Platform Security & Auth Architect. Let's define the security and 
authentication strategy for the Via di Francesco Pilgrimage Platform. 1. Auth 
Flow Diagram Given the project goal of using Supabase, Supabase Auth is the 
most suitable auth provider. It integrates seamlessly with Supabase's database, 
PostgREST, and Realtime services, and handles JWT generation and management 
effectively. Authentication Flow: Code snippet sequenceDiagram participant 
UserApp as User Application (Frontend) participant SupabaseAuth as Supabase 
Auth participant ProfilesDB as Profiles Table (Database) participant PostgREST 
as API (PostgREST) %% Signup Flow UserApp->>+SupabaseAuth: 1. Signup (email, 
password) SupabaseAuth-->>-UserApp: 2. Confirmation Email Sent (if enabled) 
UserApp->>+SupabaseAuth: 3. (User Clicks Confirmation Link) 
SupabaseAuth-->>ProfilesDB: 4. (auth.users created) -> `handle_new_user()` 
trigger fires ProfilesDB-->>ProfilesDB: 5. `profiles` record created with 
default role(s) SupabaseAuth-->>-UserApp: 6. Signup Confirmed / Initial Session 
(JWT) %% Login Flow UserApp->>+SupabaseAuth: 7. Login (email, password) 
SupabaseAuth-->>-UserApp: 8. Session (Access Token JWT, Refresh Token) Note 
over SupabaseAuth,ProfilesDB: JWT `roles` claim injected based on 
`profiles.roles` %% Authenticated API Request UserApp->>+PostgREST: 9. API 
Request with `Authorization: Bearer <JWT>` PostgREST->>SupabaseAuth: 10. 
Validate JWT SupabaseAuth-->>PostgREST: 11. JWT Valid (includes user_id, roles) 
PostgREST->>ProfilesDB: 12. Apply RLS based on user_id and roles 
ProfilesDB-->>PostgREST: 13. Data according to RLS PostgREST-->>-UserApp: 14. 
API Response %% Token Refresh Flow UserApp->>+SupabaseAuth: 15. Refresh Token 
(when Access Token expires) SupabaseAuth-->>-UserApp: 16. New Session (New 
Access Token JWT, New Refresh Token) %% Logout Flow UserApp->>+SupabaseAuth: 
17. Logout SupabaseAuth-->>-UserApp: 18. Session invalidated / Tokens cleared 
Key JWT Claims and Injection: sub : User's UUID from auth.users.id . role : 
Supabase Auth sets this to authenticated by default after login. aud : 
Typically authenticated . exp : Expiration timestamp. Custom Claims (e.g., 
app_roles or user_roles ) : To inject the user's specific application roles 
(from public.profiles.roles ), we would typically use a PostgreSQL function 
hooked into the Supabase Auth token generation process (e.g., via 
auth.role_claim_hook if available, or by customizing the JWT through database 
triggers or edge functions that enrich the token upon login/refresh, though 
Supabase's default JWT handling with PostgREST RLS often relies on querying 
profiles table using auth.uid() within RLS policies rather than directly 
injecting all roles into the JWT to keep it lean). For PostgREST RLS, the 
primary mechanism is auth.uid() to identify the user and auth.role() (which is 
'authenticated'). RLS policies then typically query the public.profiles table 
using auth.uid() to get the specific application roles (e.g., SELECT roles FROM 
public.profiles WHERE id = auth.uid() ) and apply permissions accordingly. This 
is efficient and secure. The public.has_role() and public.has_role_on_profile() 
helper functions are designed for this. 2. Roles & Permission Matrix Role Name 
Inherits From Key Responsibilities & RLS Policy Groups Example API Scopes 
(Conceptual) anonymous N/A Read public content (e.g., published media, active 
languages/roles, public profiles via view, published trail/waypoint data). Uses 
RLS policies with USING (true) for generally accessible data. 
read:public_languages , read:public_roles , read:public_media , 
read:public_profiles_view , read:public_trails , read:public_waypoints 
pilgrim_user anonymous Read own profile, update own profile, create 
user-generated content (tips, votes), read all published content. Access 
controlled by auth.uid() = id or auth.uid() = user_id in RLS. profile:read_own 
, profile:update_own , tips:create , votes:create , media:upload_own 
accommodation_host pilgrim_user Manage own accommodation listings (CRUD). 
accommodations:create_own , accommodations:read_own , accommodations:update_own 
, accommodations:delete_own content_moderator pilgrim_user Review and moderate 
user-generated content (tips, potentially media based on status), update 
media.media_status . tips:moderate , media:update_status , media:update_any 
regional_content_manager content_moderator Manage content (trails, POIs, 
segments, warnings) within assigned regions. Requires RLS helper like 
is_regional_manager_for_trail(trail_id) . trails:update_regional , 
waypoints:create_regional , warnings:manage_regional admin_platform 
regional_content_manager Manage most platform data (users, roles, all content), 
except super-admin functions. Uses public.has_role('admin_platform') in RLS. 
users:manage_all , roles:manage_all , languages:manage_all , content:manage_all 
, media:delete_any admin_super admin_platform Full system access, manage core 
schema, critical configurations, is_system_role definitions. Often used for 
migrations or direct DB tasks rather than API scopes. Uses 
public.has_role('admin_super') in RLS. system:manage_all , (Potentially 
bypasses some application-level checks for critical maintenance via direct DB 
access if needed, though API access would be same as admin_platform or more 
privileged). Note: API scopes are conceptual and would be enforced by a 
combination of RLS (for data access) and potentially at an API gateway level or 
backend logic if specific business actions beyond CRUD are needed. 3. Security 
Headers & Cookies For a Supabase/PostgREST setup, the primary mechanism is the 
JWT Bearer token. Required Headers (for authenticated requests) : 
Authorization: Bearer <YOUR_SUPABASE_JWT> : Essential for authenticating the 
user and enabling RLS. apikey: <YOUR_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY> : Supabase's 
public/anonymous key, required for all requests to PostgREST. Content-Type: 
application/json (For POST , PUT , PATCH requests). Accept: application/json 
(Typically). Security Best Practice Headers (set by the 
server/PostgREST/Supabase Edge Functions delivering HTML or API responses) : 
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains; preload 
X-Content-Type-Options: nosniff X-Frame-Options: DENY (or SAMEORIGIN depending 
on needs) Content-Security-Policy: default-src 'self'; script-src 'self' 
<trusted_cdn_if_any>; style-src 'self' 'unsafe-inline' <trusted_cdn_if_any>; 
img-src 'self' data: <your_supabase_storage_url>; connect-src 'self' 
<your_supabase_api_url>; frame-ancestors 'none'; (This is an example, needs to 
be tailored). Referrer-Policy: strict-origin-when-cross-origin 
Permissions-Policy: accelerometer=(), camera=(), geolocation=(), gyroscope=(), 
magnetometer=(), microphone=(), payment=(), usb=() (Restrict features not 
used). Cookies : Supabase Auth uses cookies (e.g., sb-access-token , 
sb-refresh-token ) to manage sessions, primarily for server-side rendering or 
when its client library is used in a browser context. These are typically 
HttpOnly and Secure. For SPA frontends making direct API calls, the JWT is 
usually retrieved from local storage/session storage (or secure in-memory 
store) by the Supabase client library and sent in the Authorization header. 
PostgREST itself is stateless and relies on the JWT. Sample curl with 
Authorization Header: Bash curl -X GET \ 
'https://<your-project-ref>.supabase.co/rest/v1/profiles?select=*&id=eq.<user_uu
id>' \ -H 'apikey: <YOUR_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY>' \ -H 'Authorization: Bearer 
<USER_JWT_ACCESS_TOKEN>' 4. Error & Rate-Limit Strategy Standard Error Object: 
JSON { "code" : "ERROR_CODE_SLUG" , // e.g., "validation_failed", 
"resource_not_found", "unauthenticated" "message" : "A human-readable summary 
of the error." , "detail" : "More specific details or field-specific errors 
(optional, can be an object or string)." // "hint": "Optional hint on how to 
resolve the error." // PostgREST uses this // "details": "PostgREST often uses 
this for more structured error info." } PostgREST already provides a detailed 
JSON error response structure which includes message , code , details , and 
hint . We should align with or extend this. HTTP Status Codes: 200 OK : 
Successful GET, PUT, PATCH. 201 Created : Successful POST. 204 No Content : 
Successful DELETE, or successful PUT/PATCH if no content is returned. 400 Bad 
Request : General client-side error (e.g., malformed request, invalid JSON). 
401 Unauthorized : Authentication required or failed (e.g., missing/invalid 
JWT). 403 Forbidden : Authenticated user does not have permission for the 
action (RLS denial). 404 Not Found : Resource does not exist. 409 Conflict : 
Request conflicts with the current state of the resource (e.g., unique 
constraint violation not caught by pre-flight checks). 422 Unprocessable Entity 
: Semantic errors in the request payload (e.g., validation failed for specific 
fields, even if syntactically correct). 429 Too Many Requests : Rate limit 
exceeded. 500 Internal Server Error : Unexpected server-side error. Basic 
Global Rate-Limit Policy (Conceptual - Supabase has built-in limits, custom via 
Edge Functions/API Gateway if needed): Per IP Address or User ID : Apply limits 
based on the source IP for anonymous requests and user ID for authenticated 
requests. General Limit : e.g., 100-200 requests per minute per user/IP. 
Stricter Limits for Sensitive/Expensive Operations : e.g., Login attempts (5-10 
per minute), new user registration, resource-intensive queries. Response : 429 
Too Many Requests with Retry-After header if applicable. Supabase's built-in 
abuse protection for Auth endpoints and general platform limits should be 
leveraged first. More granular control can be implemented with an API gateway 
or custom logic in Edge Functions if specific endpoints become targets. 5. 
Impact Checklist Based on this security and auth architecture using Supabase 
Auth and PostgREST RLS: New DB Columns, Indexes, or RLS Helpers Required? 🔴 
None critical that aren't already addressed. The existing table specs (as of 
Versions 2.1/2.2 after re-evaluation) which include standard audit columns ( 
created_by_profile_id , updated_by_profile_id ), icon_identifier fields, and 
robust RLS policies supported by helper functions like public.has_role() and 
public.has_role_on_profile() , are well-aligned. 🟠 Optional : If a more 
granular role/permission system beyond the profiles.roles text array were ever 
needed (e.g., specific permissions assigned per user, not just roles), that 
would require new tables. However, for the current role-based model, the 
existing structure is sound. The helper functions public.has_role(TEXT) and 
public.has_role_on_profile(UUID, TEXT) must be robustly implemented as they are 
central to many RLS policies. Their definitions were included in the Module 
Overview. Any Changes to Existing Specs? 🔴 No "Must-add" changes to the 
database schema specifications themselves are identified solely from this auth 
architecture phase, assuming the latest versions (2.1/2.2) of the table specs 
are the baseline. 🟠 Clarification in RLS Policy Population of Audit Fields : 
While the RLS policies define who can update rows , the specs (or dev 
guidelines) should note that the updated_by_profile_id (and 
created_by_profile_id where not implicit) columns in tables like 
languages_master , user_roles_master , media , translations , and profiles (for 
admin updates) will primarily be set by application-layer logic when an 
authenticated user (especially an admin or moderator) performs an action. The 
generic extensions.moddatetime trigger only handles updated_at . If direct DB 
manipulation by admins is common and needs to capture their ID automatically 
via triggers, a more complex BEFORE UPDATE trigger strategy would be needed for 
these audit fields, potentially replacing the simple extensions.moddatetime for 
updated_at with a custom one that also sets updated_by_profile_id = auth.uid() 
. This is a development consideration for how these fields get populated. The 
current schema supports their existence. 🟢 Refinement of JWT Claims : While 
not a schema change, the precise mechanism and extent of custom claims (like 
app_roles ) injected into the JWT versus relying purely on DB lookups within 
RLS policies is an implementation detail. The current approach (lean JWT, RLS 
queries profiles table) is robust and scalable. 
